Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab. This is a free,
complete course for the CCNA. If you like these
videos, please subscribe to follow along with the
series. Also, please like and leave a comment,
and share the video to help spread this
free series of videos. Thanks for your help.
In this video we will cover extended ACLs, access
control lists. Everything we covered in Day 34
about the purpose of ACLs, how they work, how
to apply them to interfaces, etc. is the same
for extended ACLs. The only difference is that
extended ACLs can do more specific matching
than standard ACLs, which can only match
based on the source IP address of the packet.
As a reminder, ACLs are topic
5.6 of the exam topics list,
which states that you must be able to configure
and verify access control lists. After this video,
you’ll know everything you need to know to
answer questions about ACLs on the CCNA exam.
Here’s what we’ll cover in today’s video.
First up, I’ll show you another way to
configure numbered ACLs. This applies
to both standard and extended ACLs.
Then I’ll show you how to edit ACLs, in
case you want to add or remove specific
entries in a specific order. Finally I’ll
introduce extended numbered and named ACLs.
Although the commands are a little longer
because they can match based on more variables,
the configuration method in general
is the same as for standard ACLs.
As always, watch until the end of the quiz for
a bonus question from ExSim for CCNA by Boson
Software. Boson ExSim simulates the difficulty
and style of the real CCNA exam better than any
other practice exams. If you want to get Boson
ExSim, follow the link in the video description.
Let’s get started. In day 34 you learned that
numbered ACLs are configured in global config
mode. For example, here’s a simple ACL denying
192.168.1.1 but permitting all other traffic.
The entries of ACL 1 are configured directly from
global config mode with the ACCESS-LIST command.
You also learned that named ACLs are configured
with subcommands in a different config mode.
Here’s the same ACL, configured as a named ACL.
The IP ACCESS-LIST STANDARD command is used
to enter standard named ACL config mode,
and then subcommands within that mode
are used to configure each entry of theACL.
However, in modern Cisco IOS you can also
configure numbered ACLs in the exact same way as
named ACLs. Here’s a numbered ACL, configured
in the same way as the named ACL above.
Be aware that this is just a different
way of configuring numbered ACLs,
but if you check the ACL in the running
config it will be displayed as if it
was configured using the traditional
method, directly from global config mode.
Let me demonstrate. From global config
mode I entered IP ACCESS-LIST STANDARD and
then checked the options. Notice that both
numbered and named ACLs are valid options.
So, I configured ACL 1 using the named ACL
configuration method, IP ACCESS-LIST STANDARD
1 and then the two separate entries. However,
after checking the running config it displays
as if I configured it using the traditional
numbered ACL method, configuring the entries
from global config mode. If it ends up being
just like a regular numbered ACL, why configure
it in named ACL config mode? Well, there are
a few advantages to using this config mode.
Let me show you those advantages. First, you
can easily delete individual ACL entries with
the command NO, followed by the entry number.
Let’s see how that works. First, I used DO SHOW
ACCESS-LISTS, and you can see an ACL that I have
configured. It has four entries, with sequence
numbers 10, 20, 30, and 40. These are the default
sequence numbers, starting at 10 and increasing
by 10, but remember that in named ACL config mode
you can also specify the sequence number manually.
Okay, then I used the command NO 30
from named ACL config mode for ACL 1.
Then I checked the ACL again, and now you
can see that entry 30 has been deleted.
This is very convenient for editing
ACLs. How about when configuring ACLs
using the traditional numbered ACL
method, from global config mode?
Let’s see how it works. Here’s the same ACL,
with the same four entries. I also checked it
out in the running-config. Then I tried to delete
the same entry as before, sequence number 30,
by using NO in front of the command. NO
ACCESS-LIST 1 DENY 192.168.3.0 0.0.0.255. So,
did that delete that entry? I checked with SHOW
ACCESS-LISTS, but nothing appears. Just to make
sure I checked the running-config, but again
nothing was displayed. I deleted that entry,
but I didn’t just delete that entry. I deleted
the whole ACL! When configuring or editing
numbered ACLs from global config mode, you can’t
delete individual entries, you can only delete
the entire ACL. So, if you want to edit it you
have to delete it and then remake it from zero.
If an ACL has many entries, this is obviously not
a fun task. So, if you want to edit an ACL you
definitely should use named ACL config mode. Note
that, if you prefer, you can configure a numbered
ACL in global config mode, and then just use named
ACL config mode when you need to edit the ACL.
Okay, so that’s the first advantage
of using named ACL config mode,
even if you’re configuring numbered ACLs.
You can delete individual entries with NO,
followed by the entry number. Here’s another
advantage. You can insert new entries in between
other entries by specifying the sequence number.
When configuring an ACL from global config mode,
you can’t specify the sequence number. The
entry is simply added to the end of the ACL,
and the sequence number is automatically set to 10
higher than the current highest sequence number.
However from named ACL config mode you can
set the sequence number, so you can insert
new entries in the middle of an ACL. Let’s
take a look. Here’s that same ACL from before,
after deleting entry 30. Let’s configure
a new entry with sequence number 30.
So, I used 30 DENY 192.168.2.0 0.0.0.255 to create
a new entry, specifying the sequence number of 30.
Then I checked the ACL, and you can see the new
entry was inserted between entries 20 and 40,
and it has the sequence number of 30 that I
specified. I also checked the running config,
and notice as I showed you before that it
is displayed like the ACL was configured
in global config mode, and the new entry was
inserted between the 2nd and 4th entries. Okay,
those are a couple advantages of using named ACL
config mode even when configuring numbered ACLs.
Let me show you one more
powerful method of editing ACLs.
There is a resequencing
function that helps edit ACLs.
The command is IP ACCESS-LIST RESEQUENCE, followed
by the ACL ID, whether that’s a number or a name,
and then the starting sequence number and the
increment that you want to use to increase the
sequence numbers. Okay, that might be hard to
understand, so let me show you how it works.
Here’s an ACL, but notice the sequence numbers. It
seems someone made the bad decision of sequencing
the entries 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. Note that the
displayed order is 1, 3, 2, 4, 5, but that’s
just because of what I explained in the previous
video, IOS sometimes reorders the /32 ACL entries.
So, what’s bad about these entry numbers? Well,
now it’s impossible to insert an entry in between
the other entries. For example, maybe you want to
insert another deny entry somewhere in the middle.
However, it’s impossible because there
are no free sequence numbers in between.
Let’s use the resequence command to fix this.
I used the command IP ACCESS-LIST RESEQUENCE 1
10 10. 1 is the ACL number, what
about those two 10s? The first one
is the starting sequence number. It means, change
the sequence number of the first entry to 10.
How about the second 10 of the command?
It’s the increment. It means, add 10 for
every entry after that, after the first
entry. So, I used SHOW ACCESS-LISTS again,
and the ACL has been resequenced. Note that the
same order is kept, DENY 192.168.1.1 at the top,
then DENY 3.1, then DENY 2.1, then DENY 4.1, and
finally PERMIT ANY. However, the sequence numbers
have been changed, starting at 10 for the top
entry and adding 10 for each entry after that.
That’s how ACL resequencing works. Now it’s simple
to add new entries in between the current entries.
Note that this command is done from global config
mode. It works for numbered and named ACLs,
standard and extended ACLs, so all ACLs.
Okay, let’s get to the main part of this
lecture, extended ACLs. Extended ACLs function
mostly the same as standard ACLs. They can be
numbered or named, just like standard ACLs.
If you configure an extended numbered
ACL, you can use the following ranges.
100 to 199, and 2000 to 2699. You definitely
should memorize these ranges for the exam.
Make sure you know the standard ACL ranges
from last video too, 1 to 99 and 1300 to 1999.
Extended ACLs are processed from top
to bottom, just like standard ACLs.
However, here’s the big difference. They
can match traffic based on more parameters,
so they are more precise, and
more complex, than standard ACLs.
You can really specify exactly what traffic
you want to deny and what traffic you want
to permit, specific kinds of traffic from
specific hosts to specific destinations.
For the purpose of this video, we will
focus on matching based on these parameters.
Layer 4 protocol and port number, source IP
address, and destination IP address. To configure
an extended numbered ACL entry from global config
mode, the command is ACCESS-LIST, then the number.
Make sure this number is in one of the ranges
above, 100 to 199 or 2000 to 2699. Then
PERMIT or DENY. After that you can specify the
protocol, such as TCP or UDP, then the source
IP address and the destination IP address.
How about configuring an extended named ACL?
It starts with IP ACCESS-LIST EXTENDED, and then
the name or number. Just like in standard ACLs,
extended numbered ACLs can also be
configured in named ACL config mode.
Once you’re in extended named ACL config mode,
you can specify the permit or deny statements,
the protocol, source and destination, etc. Because
you already know the differences between numbered
and named ACL configuration, I will just focus on
configuring extended ACLs using the named method.
Just don’t forget that you can configure extended
numbered ACLs from global config mode, too.
Now, as I wrote above, extended ACLs are
much more complex than standard ACLs.
There are lots of different variations and
options that can be used when configuring
the access list entries. I’ll just show you some
basic options that you need to know for the CCNA,
but I won’t explore every possible option that can
be used. If you want to explore the commands more,
try it out in a lab and use the question
mark to see what options there are.
First I’ll explain how extended ACLs can match
based on protocol. From extended named ACL
config mode, I entered DENY and used the question
mark to see the options. Let me point out a few.
First up, you can use an IP protocol
number. What’s an IP protocol number?
Think back to Day 10 of this course, about the
IPv4 header. There is a protocol field which
identifies the protocol that is encapsulated
inside of the IP header, such as TCP or UDP.
So, you can identify the protocol by
the number in the IPv4 protocol field.
Or, you can use the name of the protocol, options
are listed here. Most people prefer the name,
since it’s easier to remember, but if you want to
use the protocol number here are some examples.
IP protocol number 1 is ICMP, 6 is TCP,
17 is UDP, 88 is EIGRP, and 89 is OSPF.
I briefly mentioned some of these earlier in
the course. I recommend remembering these five,
they might come up somewhere on the exam. But
as I said, usually you’ll use the protocol
name in ACLs. Here you can see EIGRP, ICMP,
and OSPF. So, you can use an extended ACL
to block OSPF messages on an interface, for
example. Or deny ICMP packets to deny pings.
However, for this lesson we are going to focus
on these two, TCP and UDP, as well as one more.
That is IP itself. If you use the IP option,
it matches all IP packets. We use this option
when we don’t care about the protocol, we just
want to deny or permit all packets. For example,
if you want to put a ‘permit any’ statement at the
end of an ACL, you would use the IP option here.
Now let’s see how to add the source and
destination IP addresses to this ACL entry. So,
I selected TCP as the protocol. So, any IP packets
with a TCP segment inside will match this part of
the entry. However, we still have to specify the
source and destination IP addresses to match.
Note that, in extended ACLs to specify a /32
source or destination you have to use the HOST
option or specify the wildcard mask. You can’t
just write the address without either of those.
In standard ACLs that is
possible, but not extended.
Okay, so I decided to use ANY to match all
source IP addresses. Now we can specify
the destination IP address. There are many more
options here related to the Layer 4 port number,
but I’ll cover that later. So, for the
destination address these are the options,
the destination address, ANY, or HOST to specify
a single destination. I decided to specify the
destination 10.0.0.0, and now I have to enter the
wildcard mask. I specified a /24 wildcard mask,
and now this entry is complete. So, what is the
function of this entry? It will deny all packets
that encapsulate a TCP segment, from any source
IP address to destination network 10.0.0.0/24.
This is just a single entry, of course, to
write a complete ACL we would probably add
more entries after this, but now I want you to
practice writing a few extended ACL entries.
Here are a few practice questions.
These aren’t entries in the same ACL,
just individual entries so you can
practice writing entries for extended ACLs.
If you can, pause the video and try to write out
each entry on your own before I show the answers.
Okay, let’s check each one, number 1 first.
How can you write an extended ACL entry that
permits all traffic? The answer is PERMIT IP
ANY ANY. We use IP to match all protocols,
and then we can use ANY for both the source
and destination to match all IP addresses.
This is like PERMIT ANY in a standard ACL.
Okay, how about number 2? Prevent 10.0.0.0/16
from sending UDP traffic to 192.168.1.1/32.
Here’s the answer, DENY UDP 10.0.0.0 0.0.255.255
HOST 192.168.1.1. Instead of HOST, another
option is to write out the wildcard mask at
the end instead, 0.0.0.0. Next let’s
check number 3. Prevent 172.16.1.1/32
from pinging hosts in 192.168.0.0/24. What
protocol does ping use? Let’s check the answer.
DENY ICMP, that’s the protocol for ping. I
said we’ll focus on the TCP, UDP, and IP options,
but still make sure you’re aware that ICMP
is used for ping. Then HOST 172.16.1.1
192.168.0.0 0.0.0.255. Again, instead of
HOST you could use the wildcard mask 0.0.0.0.
Okay, we’ll do some more practice later
but for now let’s go a little deeper.
So let’s talk about matching TCP and UDP port
numbers. When you specify TCP or UDP as the
protocol to match, you can optionally specify the
source and/or destination port numbers to match.
This is optional, if you just specify
TCP or UDP without the port numbers,
all port numbers will be matched. So, here’s
the command without specifying the port
numbers. I chose ‘DENY TCP’, but of course this
works with PERMIT statements and with UDP as well.
If you want to specify the source TCP or
UDP port, you specify it after the source
IP address and wildcard mask like this. EQ,
followed by the source port is just one option.
For example, EQ 80 means equal to port
80, so it matches TCP source port 80.
Another option is GT, greater than. For example
GT 80 matches all ports greater than 80,
so 81 and up. There is also LT, less than.
LT 80 matches all port numbers less than 80,
so 79 and below. NEQ is not equal, so for
example NEQ 80 matches all ports except 80.
The final option is RANGE, for example RANGE
80 100 matches all port numbers from 80 to 100.
After the destination IP address, the same
options are available to match the destination
port number. Although you should know these
different options, EQ, GT, LT, NEQ, and RANGE, the
most common choice is EQ, to match traffic for a
specific port number. Hopefully you remember these
port numbers from Day 30 of the course. If not, I
recommend taking the time now to learn them again.
So, in this example I didn’t specify the host
port, I just entered DENY TCP ANY, and then went
straight to the destination IP, HOST 1.1.1.1. Then
I entered EQ to match a specific port, and you can
see the options below. You can enter the specific
port number, or you can enter the keyword instead,
such as WWW to match HTTP, which is port 80. Lots
of common port numbers don’t have a keyword here
you can use, though, so make sure you learn the
actual numbers. So, I entered port 80, for HTTP.
What is the effect of this ACL entry? It denies
all packets destined for IP address 1.1.1.1/32,
TCP port 80. Okay, in the next I’ll have
you practice writing some more ACL entries,
but let me say one more point. After the
destination IP address and/or destination
port numbers, there are many more options
you can use to match in an extended ACL.
These aren’t necessary to learn for the CCNA, but
some options are ACK, to match the TCP ACK flag.
FIN, to match the TCP FIN flag.
SYN, to match the TCP SYN flag.
TTL, to match packets with a specific TTL, time to
live, value in the IPv4 header. And DSCP, to match
packets with a specific DSCP, differentiated
services code point, value in the IPv4 header.
Finally, note that if you specify the protocol,
source IP, source port, destination IP,
destination port, etc, a packet must match ALL
of those values to match the ACL entry. Even if
it matches all except one of the parameters,
the packet won’t match that entry of the ACL.
So, extended ACLs let you be very specific
about what traffic you want to match.
Okay, here’s some more practice for writing
individual extended ACL entries. I recommend
pausing the video to try to solve these yourself,
but now let’s check the answers. Number 1, allow
traffic from 10.0.0.0/16 to access the server at
2.2.2.2/32 using HTTPS. And here’s the answer.
PERMIT TCP, because we need to match HTTPS,
which uses TCP. Then the source IP address is
10.0.0.0/16, and we don’t need to specify a source
port number. The destination IP is 2.2.2.2/32.
I used a /32 wildcard mask, but you can
use HOST 2.2.2.2 instead, of course.
Finally, I used EQ 443 to match only HTTPS, which
uses TCP port 443. Okay, that’s number one. Next,
number 2. Prevent all hosts from using
source UDP port numbers from 20000 to 30000
from accessing the server at 3.3.3.3/32. And
here’s the answer. DENY UDP ANY RANGE 20000
30000 HOST 3.3.3.3. So, this matches all packets
using a UDP source port from 20000 to 30000,
with a destination of 3.3.3.3. Okay, finally
number 3. Allow hosts in 172.16.1.0/24 using a
TCP source port greater than 9999 to access all
TCP ports on server 4.4.4.4/32 except port 23.
Here’s the answer. The protocol is
TCP, the source IP is 172.16.1.0/24,
the source port is anything greater than 9999, the
destination IP is 4.4.4.4/32, and the destination
port is anything except 23. Quite a specific
entry, but that’s the power of extended ACLs.
Okay, let’s return to our network from Day 34
to configure and apply a few extended ACLs.
Here are the requirements. Hosts in
192.168.1.0/24 can’t use HTTPS to access SRV1.
Host in 192.168.2.0/24 can’t access 10.0.2.0/24.
And none of the hosts in 192.168.1.0/24
or 2.0/24 can ping 10.0.1.0/24 or 2.0/24.
So, we’ll use one ACL each to fulfill these
requirements, and in this case they will all
be on R1, I’ll explain why soon. First I’ll
configure an ACL for this requirement, hosts in
192.168.1.0/24 can’t use HTTPS to access SRV 1.
Here’s the ACL. After entering extended named
ACL config mode, I made a deny statement that
matches TCP traffic coming from 192.168.1.0/24.
The destination IP address is 10.0.1.100/32,
SRV1, and the destination port is 443, which
is HTTPS. That fulfills the requirement.
Then I used PERMIT IP ANY ANY to allow all other
traffic. Okay, that’s the ACL, but now we have
to apply it to an interface. Which interface
should we apply it to, and in which direction?
For standard ACLs, the rule is to apply them
as close to the destination as possible.
Why is that? It’s because standard
ACLs aren’t very specific,
they only match the source IP address. So, if you
apply them close to that source, you’ll probably
block more traffic than intended. Because
extended ACLs are much more specific,
the rule is the opposite. Extended ACLs should
be applied as close to the source as possible,
to limit how far the packets travel in the network
before being denied. Because they can be very
specific, if configured correctly there isn’t much
risk of blocking more traffic than you intended.
So, you should apply them close to the
source, so routers don’t waste resources
processing packets that will just be dropped.
So, which interface should we apply this ACL to,
where is the source? We should apply it inbound on
R1’s G0/1 interface. So, if a PC in this network
tries to access SRV1 using HTTPS, the
packet will be dropped right away at R1.
Next up, let’s fulfill that second requirement,
hosts in 192.168.2.0/24 can’t access 10.0.2.0/24.
Again, I’ll create a new ACL on R1. Of course,
if you think you’re ready, pause the video
and try to write out the ACL yourself. But
I’ll show you my solution now. Here it is.
Specifying IP as the protocol basically
matches all packets, anything with an
IP header. Then I simply specified the source,
192.168.2.0/24, and then destination, 10.0.2.0/24.
Finally I added PERMIT IP ANY
ANY to allow all other traffic.
So, which interface should this ACL be applied
to? Remember, extended ACLs should be applied as
close to the source as possible. In this case,
the source is 192.168.2.0/24, so I applied the
ACL inbound on R1’s G0/2 interface. Okay, now
the second requirement has been fulfilled.
Finally, the third requirement. None of the hosts
in 192.168.1.0/24 or 2.0/24 can ping 10.0.1.0/24
or 2.0/24. So, what protocol does ping use? We
should deny that protocol, and make a few entries
to specify each source and destination. Pause the
video if you want to try it out, but here’s my
solution. So, I created three deny entries that
match ICMP, two for source IP 192.168.1.0/24,
but only one for 192.168.2.0/24. Why is that? It’s
because in the previous ACL we already blocked all
traffic from 192.168.2.0/24 to 10.0.2.0/24,
so we don’t need to include it in this ACL.
If you included it, it’s not a problem of
course, but I just wanted to show you that
it’s not necessary. At the end of the ACL, I once
again included a PERMIT IP ANY ANY statement.
Which interface should this ACL be applied to,
and in which direction? We should prevent hosts
in both 192.168.1.0/24 and 2.0/24 from reaching
the servers’ networks. So, I think the best
option is here, outbound on G0/0. This way the
ACL applies to both 192.168.1.0/24 and 2.0/24.
So, here are the three ACLs I just configured.
As I have said before, ACL configuration
can be quite flexible, so this isn’t the
only solution that works. Actually, this is
definitely not the most efficient solution.
If you want a challenge, try to make a more
efficient solution, that uses less ACLs or
less entries, and fulfills the requirements. If
you can find one, post it in the comment section!
Finally, here’s how to check which
ACLs are applied to an interface.
The command is SHOW IP INTERFACE, then the
interface name. We often use SHOW IP INTERFACE
BRIEF, but the regular version of the command
without BRIEF gives us more information. This
is just part of the output, it’s quite long so I
cut it off. Here’s the part I wanted to show you.
Here you can see which ACL is applied
outbound and which is applied inbound,
or if there is no applied ACL it
just says ‘not set’. Of course,
you can also check in the running config,
but it’s always good to know other commands,
both for the exam and for ‘real-world’ purposes.
So, remember that command, SHOW IP INTERFACE.
Before moving on to the quiz, let’s
review what we covered in today’s video.
First I showed you another way to configure
numbered ACLs. Basically, you can configure
numbered ACLs in named ACL config mode. What is
the big advantage of that? It’s editing ACLs.
Named ACL config mode lets you delete individual
ACL entries, and specify the sequence number of
new entries to insert them in the middle of an
ACL. Then I showed you extended numbered and named
ACLs. Extended ACLs are much more powerful than
standard ACLs, as they can match traffic based on
protocol, source and destination IP addresses,
source and destination port numbers, etc.
This makes them more complex to configure, but
you just need some practice to get comfortable
with them. Remember to watch until the end of
the quiz for a bonus question from ExSim for CCNA
by Boson Software, the best practice exams for the
CCNA. Okay, let’s go to question 1 of the quiz.
Which ACL, when applied outbound on R1’s G0/0,
permits only PC1 to access the TFTP server
on SRV1? Below there are four extended ACLs,
100, 101, 102, and 103. Pause the
video to think about your answer.
Okay, the answer is 103. Entry 10 permits
UDP traffic from PC1 to access port 69,
TFTP, on SRV1. Note that,
when entering this command,
I actually entered the port number of 69,
but IOS automatically converted it to TFTP.
Then, entry 20 denies all other hosts from sending
UDP traffic to port 69 on SRV1. Finally, entry 30
permits all other traffic. ACL 102 is similar, but
instead of specifying the port on the destination,
SRV1, it specifies the source port, which
is incorrect. Okay, let’s go to question 2.
What effect will the following command have on
ACL1? Here is the command, NO ACCESS-LIST 1 DENY
10.0.2.0 0.0.0.255. And here is ACL1. A,
traffic from 10.0.2.0/24 will be permitted.
B, ACL 1 will be deleted. C, the command
will not work, it will be rejected. Or D,
traffic to 10.0.2.0/24 will be permitted.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
The answer is B, ACL 1 will be deleted.
Configuring numbered ACLs from global config
mode does not allow you to delete individual
entries. Even if you specify a certain entry with
the NO command, the entire ACL will be deleted.
If you want to delete an individual entry,
you’ll need to use named ACL config
mode. Okay, let’s go to question 3.
Which command was used to resequence ACL 199?
Here’s ACL 199 before being resequenced.
And here it is after. Here are the commands,
which one was used to resequence ACL 199?
Pause the video to think about the answer.
The answer is C, IP ACCESS-LIST RESEQUENCE
199 5 10. After IP ACCESS-LIST RESEQUENCE,
you must specify the name, the new sequence number
of the top entry, and then the increment used
to increase the sequence number of the
following entries. This command tells
the router to use 5 for the first entry, and
then increase it by 10 for entries after that,
so from 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 it became 5, 15,
25, 35, and 45. Let’s go to question 4.
Which of the following ACLs would prevent
R1 from forwarding OSPF packets out of G0/2?
Below are ACLs 110 to 113. Pause the
video to think about your answer.
The answer is ACL 112. Its first entry
denies protocol number 89, which is OSPF.
PERMIT IP ANY ANY is added to allow other
packets, and then it is applied outbound on G0/2,
so R1 won’t forward OSPF packets
out of that interface. By the way,
protocol number 88 from ACLs 111 and 113 is EIGRP,
not OSPF. Okay, let’s move on to question 5.
ACL 150 isn’t having the intended
effect. How can it be fixed to deny
HTTP and HTTPS traffic from 192.168.1.0/24
to 10.0.2.0/24, but allow other traffic?
Select two. Okay, so you can see ACL 150 and the
network topology below. Here are the options.
A, swap the source and destination IPs.
B, move the PERMIT IP ANY ANY statement
to the beginning of the ACL. C, apply
the ACL inbound on G0/1, not outbound.
D, apply the ACL inbound on G0/0, not G0/1.
E, the protocol should be TCP, not UDP.
Or F, the port numbers should be 88 and 404. Pause
the video to think about your answers, select two.
The answers are C and E. The ACL should be
applied inbound because we are trying to filter
traffic entering the G0/1 interface from the
192.168.1.0/24 subnet. So, C is correct. Also,
HTTP and HTTPS both use TCP as their Layer
4 protocol, not UDP. So E is also correct.
Okay, that’s all for the quiz. Now let’s do
a bonus question from Boson ExSim for CCNA.
Okay, here's today's Boson ExSim practice
question. We have a network here connected
to the Internet. We have Router1, and three
servers. Music Server1, Music Server2,
and a web server. Here's the question. You have
been hired as a consultant for Music World Corp.
You need to limit access from the Internet
to the music download servers, Music Server1
and Music Server2. These two servers should
only allow FTP connections from the Internet.
The web server is not subject to this policy
and should not be restricted. Other servers
on the 10.10.10.0/24 subnet should not
allow any connections from the Internet.
You have already issued the access-list 101
permit tcp any host 10.10.10.20 command and
applied the access list outbound on the F0/0
interface. Okay, so this ACL entry here,
permit TCP any host 10.10.10.20, satisfies this
part of the requirements. The web server is not
subject to this policy and should not be
restricted. So that requirement is already
fulfilled. So, what requirement do we have
to fulfill? It's this one here. You need to
limit access from the Internet to the music
download servers. These two servers should
allow only FTP connections from the Internet.
Okay, so here are the options. We have A, B,
C, and D. So, pause the video, look at these four
access list entries, and select the best answer.
Okay, let's check. So, I think the correct answer
is A, and let me explain. So, we want to permit
FTP connections to Music Server1 and Music
Server2. So we're permitting any source IP
address, so anything from the Internet, so connect
to 10.10.10.0, this is /30. So that includes
Music Server1 and Music Server2. But it
doesn't include Web Server, for example. And
'equals FTP', so that allows FTP connections
to Music Server1 and Music Server2. And then
after that on this access list there would be a
implicit deny, so that denies all other traffic.
So I think that satisfies the requirements. We are
allowing all TCP connections to the web server,
and we are allowing only FTP connections to Music
Server1 and Music Server2, and then the implicit
deny blocks all other traffic. Okay, so let's
check the answer. I'll click on show answer.
And that is correct. So,
here is Boson's explanation.
You can pause the video here if you want to
read the explanation, and I recommend you do.
As I have said before, this is one of
the great things about Boson ExSim.
Okay, so that's the explanation. There
are also references to the chapter in
Cisco's official cert guide and some
Cisco documentation which you can read.
Okay, that's Boson ExSim for the
CCNA. If you want to get ExSim,
follow the link in the video description. These
are by far the best practice exams for the CCNA.
Once again, follow that link
in the video description.
There are supplementary materials for this video.
There is a flashcard deck to
use with the software ‘Anki’.
There will also be a packet tracer practice
lab so you can get some hands-on practice.
That will be in the next video. Sign up for my
mailing list via the link in the description,
and I’ll send you all of the flashcards
and packet tracer lab files for the course.
Before finishing today’s video I want
to thank my JCNP-level channel members.
To join, please click the ‘Join’ button under the
video. Thank you to Aaron, Junhong, OJ, Magrathea,
TheGunguy, Njabulo, Benjamin, Tshepiso,
Justin, Prakaash, Nasir, Erlison,
Apogee, Marko, Flodo , Daming, Joshua,
Jhilmar, Ed, Value, John, Funnydart, Scott,
Marek, Velvijaykum, C Mohd, Mark, Yousif, Sidi,
Boson Software, Devin, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance.
Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly,
but thank you so much for your support.
This is the list of JCNP-level members at the time
of recording by the way, November 29th 2020. If
you signed up recently and your name isn’t on
here don’t worry, you’ll be in future videos.
Thank you for watching. Please
subscribe to the channel,
like the video, leave a comment, and share the
video with anyone else studying for the CCNA.
If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the
description. I'm also a Brave verified publisher
and accept BAT, or Basic Attention Token, tips
via the Brave browser. That's all for now.